README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexandrainst/danlp/master/docs/imgs/danlp_logo.png"  width="350"  />
</h1>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/danlp/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/danlp.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/alexandrainst/danlp"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/alexandrainst/danlp.svg?branch=master"></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/alexandrainst/danlp?branch=master"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/alexandrainst/danlp/badge.svg?branch=master"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD%203-blue.svg"></a>
</div>
<div align="center">
  <h5>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/ner.md">
      Named Entity Recognition
      </a>
      <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md">
      Part of Speech
    </a>
    <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md">
      Sentiment Analysis
    </a>
      <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/embeddings.md">
      Embeddings
      </a>
  </h5>
    <h5>
   	 <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md">
      Datasets
   	 </a>
      <span> | </span>
   	 <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples">
      Examples
   	 </a>
  </h5>
</div>
DaNLP is a repository for Natural Language Processing resources for the Danish Language. 
It is a collection  of available datasets and models for a variety of NLP tasks. The aim is to make it easier and more applicable to practitioners in the industry to use Danish NLP and hence this project is licensed to allow commercial use. The project features code examples on how to use the datasets and models in popular NLP frameworks such as spaCy, Transformers and Flair as well as Deep Learning frameworks such as PyTorch. 

If you are new to NLP or want to know more about the project in a broader perspective, you can start on our [microsite](https://danlp.alexandra.dk/).

<br/>**Help us improve DaNLP**

- :raising_hand: Have you tried the DaNLP package? Then we would love to chat with you about your experiences from a company perspective. It will take approx 20-30 minutes and there's no preparation. English/danish as you prefer. Please leave your details [here](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=zSPaS4dKm0GkfXZzEwsohKhC_ON5BmxBtRwkonVf21tUQUxDQ0oyTVAyU0tDUDVDMTM4SkU4SjJISi4u) and then we will reach out to arrange a call. We also welcome and appreciate any written feedback. Reach us at [danlp@alexandra.dk](mailto:danlp@alexandra.dk)

**News**

- :hotel: Version 0.0.10 has been [released](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/releases) with an update of a permanent URL for storage host of models and dataset hosted by danlp, a first version of a spaCy sentiment model is added, and a noun phrase chunking function using spaCy dependecy model is added to the danlp package.

- :blue_book: A jupyter notebook tutorial of FasText  classification model on speeches from Danish Parliament is added

- 🚧 Support for Danish in the [spaCy]( https://spacy.io/models/da) new 2.3 version. The progress for supporting spaCy can be seen here [issue #3056](https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/issues/3056). The spacy model is trained using DaNE and DDT [datasets](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane) - Read more about using spacy through danlp [here](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/spacy.md)  

  

**Next up**

- :hatching_chick: Example tutorials in Jupiter notebook and getting started guides is coming soon!
- :link:  Dataset for coreference is coming soon​
- :paw_prints: Improving spaCy ner model using hard distil of Bert Ner



## Get started

To get started using DaNLP in your python project simply install the pip package. However installing the pip package 
will not install all NLP libraries because we want you to have the freedom to limit the dependency on what you use.

### Install with pip

To get started using DaNLP simply install the project with pip:

```bash
pip install danlp 
```

Note that the installation of DaNLP does not install other NLP libraries such as Gensim, SpaCy, flair or Transformers.
This allows the installation to be as minimal as possible and let the user choose to e.g. load word embeddings with either spaCy, flair or Gensim.  Therefore, depending on the function you need to use, you should install one or several of the following: `pip install flair`, `pip install spacy ` or/and `pip install gensim `. You can check the `requirements.txt` file to see what version the packages has been tested with.

### Install from source

If you want to be able to use the latest developments before they are released in a new pip package, or you want to modify the code yourself, then clone this repo and install from source.

```
git clone https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp.git
cd danlp
pip install . 
```

To install the dependencies used in the package with the tested versions:

```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


### Install from github
Alternatively you can install the latest version from github using:
```
pip install git+https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp.git
```

### Install with Docker 
To quickly get started with DaNLP and to try out the models you can use our Docker image.
To start a ipython session simply run:
```bash
docker run -it --rm alexandrainst/danlp ipython
```
If you want to run a `<script.py>` in your current working directory you can run:
```bash
docker run -it --rm -v "$PWD":/usr/src/app -w /usr/src/app alexandrainst/danlp python <script.py>
                  
```


## NLP Models

Natural Language Processing is an active area of research and it consists of many different tasks. 
The DaNLP repository provides an overview of Danish models for some of the most common NLP tasks.

The repository is under development and this is the list of NLP tasks we have covered and plan to cover in the repository.
-  [Embedding of text](docs/models/embeddings.md)
-  [Part of speech](docs/models/pos.md)
-  [Named Entity Recognition](docs/models/ner.md)
-  [Sentiment Analysis](docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md)
-  [Dependency parsing](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/dependency.md)
-  Coreference resolution
-  Lemmatization

If you are interested in Danish support for any specific NLP task you are welcome to get in contact with us.

We do also recommend to check out this awesome [list](https://github.com/fnielsen/awesome-danish) of Danish NLP stuff from Finn Årup Nielsen. 

## Datasets
The number of datasets in the Danish is limited. The DaNLP repository provides an overview of the available Danish datasets that can be used for commercial purposes.

The DaNLP package allows you to download and preprocess datasets. You can read about the datasets [here](/docs/datasets.md).

## Examples
You will find examples and tutorials [here](/examples) that shows how to use NLP in Danish. This project keeps a Danish written [blog](https://medium.com/danlp) on medium where we write about Danish NLP, and in time we will also provide some real cases of how NLP is applied in Danish companies.

## Structure of the repo

To help you navigate we provide you with an overview of the structure in the github:

    .
    ├── danlp		   # Source files
    │	├── datasets   # Code to load dataset with different frameworks 
    │	├── models     # Code to load models with different frameworks 
    ├── docker         # Docker image
    ├── docs	       # Documentation files over dataset and models
    │   ├── imgs	   # Images used in documentation
    │   ├── models     # Overview over available models with code snippet and benchmark results
    ├── examples	   # Examples, tutorials and benchmark scripts
    │   ├── benchmarks # Scripts for reproducing benchmarks results reported in docs
    ├── tests   	   # Test for continous integration with travis

## How do I contribute?

If you want to contribute to the DaNLP repository and make it better, your help is very welcome. You can contribute to the project in many ways:

- Help us write good tutorials on Danish NLP use-cases
- Contribute with your own pretrained NLP models or datasets in Danish
- Notify us of other Danish NLP resources
- Create GitHub issues with questions and bug reports

You can write us at danlp@alexandra.dk.

## Who is behind?
<img align="right" width="150" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexandrainst/danlp/master/docs/imgs/alexandra_logo.png">

The DaNLP repository is maintained by the [Alexandra Institute](https://alexandra.dk/uk) which is a Danish non-profit company 
with a mission to create value, growth and welfare in society. The Alexandra Institute is a member of [GTS](https://gts-net.dk/), 
a network of independent Danish research and technology organisations.

The work on this repository is part the [Dansk For Alle](https://bedreinnovation.dk/dansk-alle-0) performance contract 
allocated to the Alexandra Insitute by the [Danish Ministry of Higher Education and Science](https://ufm.dk/en?set_language=en&cl=en). The project runs in two years in 2019 and 2020, and an overview  of the project can be found on our [microsite](https://danlp.alexandra.dk/). ````

Commit message:

Prepare the documentation for Readthedocs (#86)
* Update docstrings in source code

* Add readthedocs setup files + documentation

* Privatize some functions

functions that should not be displayed in the documentation are made private

* Update links in docs

using relative path for links to work with sphinx and markdown in github

* Add and update documentation

add:
- a quick start guide
- framework documentation (bert and flair)

* Move documentation and update links

* Rename "Models" to "Tasks"

* Merge docs and readthedocs folders

* Update requirements.txt for Docker

* Minor updates in docs

 Updatet folder structure on README to match the new structure. Changed freamworks name from bert to transformes, plus small updates in frameworks docs

* Fix rst

Co-authored-by: ALEX5739\amalien <amalie.nyhagen@alexandra.dk>

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexandrainst/danlp/master/docs/imgs/danlp_logo.png"  width="350"  />
</h1>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/danlp/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/danlp.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://travis-ci.org/alexandrainst/danlp"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/alexandrainst/danlp.svg?branch=master"></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/alexandrainst/danlp?branch=master"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/alexandrainst/danlp/badge.svg?branch=master"></a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD%203-blue.svg"></a>
</div>
<div align="center">
  <h5>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/ner.md">
      Named Entity Recognition
      </a>
      <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md">
      Part of Speech
    </a>
    <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md">
      Sentiment Analysis
    </a>
      <span> | </span>
    <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/embeddings.md">
      Embeddings
      </a>
  </h5>
    <h5>
   	 <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md">
      Datasets
   	 </a>
      <span> | </span>
   	 <a href="https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples">
      Examples
   	 </a>
  </h5>
</div>
DaNLP is a repository for Natural Language Processing resources for the Danish Language. 
It is a collection  of available datasets and models for a variety of NLP tasks. The aim is to make it easier and more applicable to practitioners in the industry to use Danish NLP and hence this project is licensed to allow commercial use. The project features code examples on how to use the datasets and models in popular NLP frameworks such as spaCy, Transformers and Flair as well as Deep Learning frameworks such as PyTorch. 

If you are new to NLP or want to know more about the project in a broader perspective, you can start on our [microsite](https://danlp.alexandra.dk/).

<br/>**Help us improve DaNLP**

- :raising_hand: Have you tried the DaNLP package? Then we would love to chat with you about your experiences from a company perspective. It will take approx 20-30 minutes and there's no preparation. English/danish as you prefer. Please leave your details [here](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=zSPaS4dKm0GkfXZzEwsohKhC_ON5BmxBtRwkonVf21tUQUxDQ0oyTVAyU0tDUDVDMTM4SkU4SjJISi4u) and then we will reach out to arrange a call. We also welcome and appreciate any written feedback. Reach us at [danlp@alexandra.dk](mailto:danlp@alexandra.dk)

**News**

- :hotel: Version 0.0.10 has been [released](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/releases) with an update of a permanent URL for storage host of models and dataset hosted by danlp, a first version of a spaCy sentiment model is added, and a noun phrase chunking function using spaCy dependecy model is added to the danlp package.

- :blue_book: A jupyter notebook tutorial of FasText  classification model on speeches from Danish Parliament is added

- 🚧 Support for Danish in the [spaCy]( https://spacy.io/models/da) new 2.3 version. The progress for supporting spaCy can be seen here [issue #3056](https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/issues/3056). The spacy model is trained using DaNE and DDT [datasets](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane) - Read more about using spacy through danlp [here](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/spacy.md)  

  

**Next up**

- :hatching_chick: Example tutorials in Jupiter notebook and getting started guides is coming soon!
- :link:  Dataset for coreference is coming soon​
- :paw_prints: Improving spaCy ner model using hard distil of Bert Ner



## Get started

To get started using DaNLP in your python project simply install the pip package. However installing the pip package 
will not install all NLP libraries because we want you to have the freedom to limit the dependency on what you use.

### Install with pip

To get started using DaNLP simply install the project with pip:

```bash
pip install danlp 
```

Note that the installation of DaNLP does not install other NLP libraries such as Gensim, SpaCy, flair or Transformers.
This allows the installation to be as minimal as possible and let the user choose to e.g. load word embeddings with either spaCy, flair or Gensim.  Therefore, depending on the function you need to use, you should install one or several of the following: `pip install flair`, `pip install spacy ` or/and `pip install gensim `. You can check the `requirements.txt` file to see what version the packages has been tested with.

### Install from source

If you want to be able to use the latest developments before they are released in a new pip package, or you want to modify the code yourself, then clone this repo and install from source.

```
git clone https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp.git
cd danlp
pip install . 
```

To install the dependencies used in the package with the tested versions:

```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


### Install from github
Alternatively you can install the latest version from github using:
```
pip install git+https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp.git
```

### Install with Docker 
To quickly get started with DaNLP and to try out the models you can use our Docker image.
To start a ipython session simply run:
```bash
docker run -it --rm alexandrainst/danlp ipython
```
If you want to run a `<script.py>` in your current working directory you can run:
```bash
docker run -it --rm -v "$PWD":/usr/src/app -w /usr/src/app alexandrainst/danlp python <script.py>
                  
```


## NLP Models

Natural Language Processing is an active area of research and it consists of many different tasks. 
The DaNLP repository provides an overview of Danish models for some of the most common NLP tasks.

The repository is under development and this is the list of NLP tasks we have covered and plan to cover in the repository.
-  [Embedding of text](docs/models/embeddings.md)
-  [Part of speech](docs/models/pos.md)
-  [Named Entity Recognition](docs/models/ner.md)
-  [Sentiment Analysis](docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md)
-  [Dependency parsing](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/dependency.md)
-  Coreference resolution
-  Lemmatization

If you are interested in Danish support for any specific NLP task you are welcome to get in contact with us.

We do also recommend to check out this awesome [list](https://github.com/fnielsen/awesome-danish) of Danish NLP stuff from Finn Årup Nielsen. 

## Datasets
The number of datasets in the Danish is limited. The DaNLP repository provides an overview of the available Danish datasets that can be used for commercial purposes.

The DaNLP package allows you to download and preprocess datasets. You can read about the datasets [here](/docs/datasets.md).

## Examples
You will find examples and tutorials [here](/examples) that shows how to use NLP in Danish. This project keeps a Danish written [blog](https://medium.com/danlp) on medium where we write about Danish NLP, and in time we will also provide some real cases of how NLP is applied in Danish companies.

## Structure of the repo

To help you navigate we provide you with an overview of the structure in the github:

    .
    ├── danlp		   			# Source files
    │	├── datasets   			# Code to load dataset with different frameworks 
    │	├── models     			# Code to load models with different frameworks 
    ├── docker         			# Docker image
    ├── docs	       			# Documentation and files for setting up for Read The Docs
    │   ├── docs	   			# Documentation for tasks, dataset and frameworks
    │	    ├── tasks  			# Documentation for nlp tasks with benchmark results
    │	    ├── frameworks 		# Overview over different frameworks used
    │		├── Gettingstarted 	# Guides for installation and getting started  
    │	    ├── imgs   			# Images used in documentation
    │   ├── libary     			# Files used for Read the Docs
    ├── examples	   			# Examples, tutorials and benchmark scripts
    │   ├── benchmarks 			# Scripts for reproducing benchmarks results
    ├── tests   	   			# Test for continous integration with travis

## How do I contribute?

If you want to contribute to the DaNLP repository and make it better, your help is very welcome. You can contribute to the project in many ways:

- Help us write good tutorials on Danish NLP use-cases
- Contribute with your own pretrained NLP models or datasets in Danish
- Notify us of other Danish NLP resources
- Create GitHub issues with questions and bug reports

You can write us at danlp@alexandra.dk.

## Who is behind?
<img align="right" width="150" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alexandrainst/danlp/master/docs/imgs/alexandra_logo.png">

The DaNLP repository is maintained by the [Alexandra Institute](https://alexandra.dk/uk) which is a Danish non-profit company 
with a mission to create value, growth and welfare in society. The Alexandra Institute is a member of [GTS](https://gts-net.dk/), 
a network of independent Danish research and technology organisations.

The work on this repository is part the [Dansk For Alle](https://bedreinnovation.dk/dansk-alle-0) performance contract 
allocated to the Alexandra Insitute by the [Danish Ministry of Higher Education and Science](https://ufm.dk/en?set_language=en&cl=en). The project runs in two years in 2019 and 2020, and an overview  of the project can be found on our [microsite](https://danlp.alexandra.dk/). ````
