docs/models/pos.md, before:

Part of Speech Tagging
======================
This section is concerned with public available Part of Speech taggers in Danish. 

| Model                                                        | Train Data | License | Trained by | Tags | DaNLP |
|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|
| [Polyglot](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#polyglot) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)] | GPLv3 license | Polyglot | 17  Universal part of speech | ❌ |
| [Flair](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#flair>) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) | MIT | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️ |
| [SpaCy](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#spacy) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) | MIT | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️ |

The Danish UD treebank  uses 17 [universal part of speech tags](<https://universaldependencies.org/u/pos/index.html>):

`ADJ`: Adjective, `ADP`: Adposition , `ADV`: Adverb, `AUX`: Auxiliary verb, `CONJ`: Coordinating conjunction, `DET`: Determiner, `INTJ`: Interjection, `NOUN`: Noun, `NUM`: Numeral, `PART`: Particle `PRON`: Pronoun `PROPN`: Proper noun `PUNCT`: Punctuation `SCONJ`: Subordinating conjunction `SYM`: Symbol `VERB`: Verb `X`: Other

A medium blog using Part of Speech tagging on Danish, can be found  [here](<https://medium.com/danlp/i-klasse-med-kierkegaard-eller-historien-om-det-fede-ved-at-en-computer-kan-finde-ordklasser-189774695f3b>).

![](../imgs/postag_eksempel.gif)

##### :wrench:Flair

This project provides a trained part of speech tagging model for Danish using the [Flair](<https://github.com/flairNLP/flair>) framework from Zalando, based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). The model is trained using the data Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>)  and by using FastText word embeddings and Flair contextual word embeddings trained in this project on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus, see [here](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/embeddings.md>).

The code for training can be found on Flairs GitHub, and the following parameters are set:
`learning_rate=1`, `mini_batch_size=32`, `max_epochs=150`, `hidden_size=256`.

##### :wrench:SpaCy

The SpaCy model. 

##### Polyglot

Read more about the polyglot model [here](<https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/POS.html>), and in the original paper [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). 

## 📈 Benchmarks

F1 scores is reported below and can be reproduced using `pos_benchmarks.py` in the [example](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples>) folder, where the details score from each class is calculated.

| Model    | Micro-F1   |
| -------- | ---------- |
| Polyglot | 0.7380     |
| Flair    | **0.9667** |
| SpaCy    | 0.9550     |



## :hatching_chick: Get started using Part of speech tagging

Below is a small snippet for getting started with the Flair  Part of Speech tagger trained by Alexandra Institute, but more examples can be found on [Flair](<https://github.com/zalandoresearch/flair>) GitHub page. 

```python
from danlp.models.pos_taggers import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# Using the flair POS tagger
sentence = Sentence('jeg hopper på en bil som er rød sammen med Jens-Peter E. Hansen') 
tagger.predict(sentence, use_tokenizer=True) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())

# Example
'''Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Jens-Peter <PROPN> E. <PROPN> Hansen <PROPN>'''
```

Small getting started snippet for using the Spacy pos tagger:
```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

#Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
nlp = load_spacy_model()

# Using the spaCy POS tagger
doc = nlp('Jeg hopper på en bil som er rød sammen med Jens-Peter E. Hansen')
pred=''
for token in doc:
    pred += '{} <{}> '.format(token.text, token.pos_)
print(pred)

# Example
''' Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Jens-Peter <PROPN> E. <PROPN> Hansen <PROPN> '''
```



## 🎓 References 
- Rami Al-Rfou, Bryan Perozzi, and Steven Skiena. 2013. [Polyglot: Distributed Word Representations for Multilingual NLP](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). In **CoNLL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe, and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf). In **COLING**.

Commit message:

Update pos doc with link to spacy docs

docs/models/pos.md, after:

Part of Speech Tagging
======================
This section is concerned with public available Part of Speech taggers in Danish. 

| Model                                                        | Train Data | License | Trained by | Tags | DaNLP |
|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|-------|
| [Polyglot](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#polyglot) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)] | GPLv3 license | Polyglot | 17  Universal part of speech | ❌ |
| [Flair](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#flair>) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) | MIT | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️ |
| [SpaCy](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md#spacy) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>) | MIT | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️ |

The Danish UD treebank  uses 17 [universal part of speech tags](<https://universaldependencies.org/u/pos/index.html>):

`ADJ`: Adjective, `ADP`: Adposition , `ADV`: Adverb, `AUX`: Auxiliary verb, `CONJ`: Coordinating conjunction, `DET`: Determiner, `INTJ`: Interjection, `NOUN`: Noun, `NUM`: Numeral, `PART`: Particle `PRON`: Pronoun `PROPN`: Proper noun `PUNCT`: Punctuation `SCONJ`: Subordinating conjunction `SYM`: Symbol `VERB`: Verb `X`: Other

A medium blog using Part of Speech tagging on Danish, can be found  [here](<https://medium.com/danlp/i-klasse-med-kierkegaard-eller-historien-om-det-fede-ved-at-en-computer-kan-finde-ordklasser-189774695f3b>).

![](../imgs/postag_eksempel.gif)

##### :wrench:Flair

This project provides a trained part of speech tagging model for Danish using the [Flair](<https://github.com/flairNLP/flair>) framework from Zalando, based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). The model is trained using the data Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>)  and by using FastText word embeddings and Flair contextual word embeddings trained in this project on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus, see [here](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/embeddings.md>).

The code for training can be found on Flairs GitHub, and the following parameters are set:
`learning_rate=1`, `mini_batch_size=32`, `max_epochs=150`, `hidden_size=256`.

##### :wrench:SpaCy

Read more about the spaCy model in the dedicated [spaCy docs](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/spacy.md>) 

##### Polyglot

Read more about the polyglot model [here](<https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/POS.html>), and in the original paper [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). 

## 📈 Benchmarks

F1 scores is reported below and can be reproduced using `pos_benchmarks.py` in the [example](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples>) folder, where the details score from each class is calculated.

| Model    | Micro-F1   |
| -------- | ---------- |
| Polyglot | 0.7380     |
| Flair    | **0.9667** |
| SpaCy    | 0.9550     |



## :hatching_chick: Get started using Part of speech tagging

Below is a small snippet for getting started with the Flair  Part of Speech tagger trained by Alexandra Institute, but more examples can be found on [Flair](<https://github.com/zalandoresearch/flair>) GitHub page. 

```python
from danlp.models.pos_taggers import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# Using the flair POS tagger
sentence = Sentence('jeg hopper på en bil som er rød sammen med Jens-Peter E. Hansen') 
tagger.predict(sentence, use_tokenizer=True) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())

# Example
'''Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Jens-Peter <PROPN> E. <PROPN> Hansen <PROPN>'''
```

Small getting started snippet for using the Spacy pos tagger:
```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

#Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
nlp = load_spacy_model()

# Using the spaCy POS tagger
doc = nlp('Jeg hopper på en bil som er rød sammen med Jens-Peter E. Hansen')
pred=''
for token in doc:
    pred += '{} <{}> '.format(token.text, token.pos_)
print(pred)

# Example
''' Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Jens-Peter <PROPN> E. <PROPN> Hansen <PROPN> '''
```



## 🎓 References 
- Rami Al-Rfou, Bryan Perozzi, and Steven Skiena. 2013. [Polyglot: Distributed Word Representations for Multilingual NLP](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). In **CoNLL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe, and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf). In **COLING**.
