docs/docs/tasks/ner.md, before:

Named Entity Recognition
========================
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is the task of extracting named entities in a raw text. 
Common entity types are locations, organizations and persons. Currently a few
tools are available for NER in Danish. Popular models for NER
([BERT](https://huggingface.co/transformers/index.html),
[Flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair) and [spaCy](https://spacy.io/))
are continuously trained on the newest available named entity datasets such as DaNE
and made available through the DaNLP library.

| Model                                                                             | Train Data                                                            | Maintainer                     | Tags          | DaNLP |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|---------------|-------|
| [BERT](#bert)                                                                     | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [Flair](#flair)                                                                   | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [spaCy](#spacy)                                                                   | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [Polyglot](https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/NamedEntityRecognition.html) | Wikipedia                                                             | Polyglot                       | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |
| [daner](https://github.com/ITUnlp/daner)                                          | [Derczynski et al. (2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) | [ITU NLP](https://nlp.itu.dk/) | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |
| [NERDA](https://github.com/ebanalyse/NERDA/)                                      | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Ekstra Bladet                  | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |


#### 🔧 BERT {#bert}
The BERT [(Devlin et al. 2019)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/) NER model is based on the pre-trained [Danish BERT](https://github.com/botxo/nordic_bert) representations by BotXO which 
has been finetuned on the [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) 
dataset [(Hvingelby et al. 2020)](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2020/pdf/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf). The finetuning has been done using the [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) library from HuggingFace.

The BERT NER model can be loaded with the `load_bert_ner_model()` method. Please notice that it can maximum take 512 tokens as input at a time. For longer text sequences split before hand, for example using sentence boundary detection (e.g. by using the [spacy model](../frameworks/spacy.md ).) 

```python
from danlp.models import load_bert_ner_model
bert = load_bert_ner_model()
# Get lists of tokens and labels in BIO format
tokens, labels = bert.predict("Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark")
print(" ".join(["{}/{}".format(tok,lbl) for tok,lbl in zip(tokens,labels)]))

# To get a correct tokenization, you have to provide it yourself to BERT  by providing a list of tokens
# (for example SpaCy can be used for tokenization)
# With this option, output can also be choosen to be a dict with tags and position instead of BIO format
tekst_tokenized = ['Han', 'hedder', 'Anders', 'And', 'Andersen', 'og', 'bor', 'i', 'Århus', 'C']
bert.predict(tekst_tokenized, IOBformat=False)
"""
{'text': 'Han hedder Anders And Andersen og bor i Århus C',
 'entities': [{'type': 'PER','text':'Anders And Andersen','start_pos': 11,'end_pos': 30},
  {'type': 'LOC', 'text': 'Århus C', 'start_pos': 40, 'end_pos': 47}]}
"""
```


#### 🔧 Flair {#flair}
The Flair [(Akbik et al. 2018)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1139/) NER model
uses pretrained [Flair embeddings](embeddings.md#flair-embeddings)
in combination with fastText word embeddings. The model is trained using the [Flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair)
 library on the the [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) dataset.

The Flair NER model can be used with DaNLP using the `load_flair_ner_model()` method.
```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_ner_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the NER tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
flair_model = load_flair_ner_model()

# Using the flair NER tagger
sentence = Sentence('Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark') 
flair_model.predict(sentence) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())
```

#### 🔧 spaCy {#spacy}
The [spaCy](https://spacy.io/) model is trained for several NLP tasks [(read more here)](../frameworks/spacy.md) using the [DDT and DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) annotations.
The spaCy model can be loaded with DaNLP to do NER predictions in the following way.
```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

nlp = load_spacy_model()

doc = nlp('Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark') 
for tok in doc:
    print("{} {}".format(tok,tok.ent_type_))
```

#### Polyglot
The Polyglot [(Al-Rfou et al. 2015)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3791) NER model
is  trained without any human annotation or language-specific knowledge but 
by automatic generating a dataset using the link structure from Wikipedia.
This model is not available through DaNLP but it can be used from the 
[Polyglot](https://github.com/aboSamoor/polyglot) library.


### NERDA

[NERDA](https://github.com/ebanalyse/NERDA/) is a python package 
that provides an interface for fine-tuning pretrained transformers for NER. 
It also includes some ready-to-use fine-tuned (on [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)) NER models based on a 
[multilingual BERT](https://github.com/google-research/bert/blob/master/multilingual.md) 
and a [Danish Electra](https://github.com/MalteHB/-l-ctra). 


#### Daner
The daner [(Derczynski et al. 2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) NER tool
is a wrapper around the [Stanford CoreNLP](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/) 
using data from [(Derczynski et al. 2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) (not released).
The tool is not available through DaNLP but it can be used from the [daner repository](https://github.com/ITUnlp/daner).


## 📈 Benchmarks
The benchmarks has been performed on the test part of the
[DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) dataset.
None of the models have been trained on this test part. We are only reporting the scores on the `LOC`, `ORG` and `PER` entities as the `MISC` category has limited practical use.
The table below has the achieved F1 score on the test set:

| Model           | LOC       | ORG       | PER       | AVG       |
|-----------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| BERT            | 83.90     | **72.98** | 92.82     | **84.04** |
| Flair           | **84.82** | 62.95     | **93.15** | 81.78     |
| spaCy           | 75.96     | 59.57     | 87.87     | 75.73     |
| Polyglot        | 64.95     | 39.3      | 78.74     | 64.18     |
| NERDA (mBERT)   | 80.75     | 65.73     | 92.66     | 80.66     |
| NERDA (electra) | 77.67     | 60.13     | 90.16     | 76.77     |

The evaluation script `ner_benchmarks.py` can be found [here](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/examples/benchmarks/ner_benchmarks.py).



## 🎓 References
- Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/). In **NAACL**.
- Rami Al-Rfou, Vivek Kulkarni, Bryan Perozzi and Steven Skiena. 2015. [POLYGLOT-NER: Massive Multilingual Named Entity Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3791). In **SDM**.
- Leon Derczynski, Camilla V. Field and Kenneth S. Bøgh. 2014. [DKIE: Open Source Information Extraction for Danish](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016). In **EACL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1139/). In **COLING**.
- Rasmus Hvingelby, Amalie B. Pauli, Maria Barrett, Christina Rosted, Lasse M. Lidegaard and Anders Søgaard. 2020. [DaNE: A Named Entity Resource for Danish](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2020/pdf/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf). In **LREC**.
- Kevin Clark, Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V. Le and Christopher D. Manning. [ELECTRA: Pre-training Text Encoders as Discriminators Rather Than Generators](https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/clark2020electra.pdf). In **ICLR**.

Commit message:

adding dacy to danlp (#118)
* adding dacy to danlp

* rem test and fixed req

* updated ner

* updated pos

* added dep

* added dacy benchmark to main as a comment

* removed dacy small from NER

* added version to DaCy models

Co-authored-by: KennethEnevoldsen <kennethcenevolsen@gmail.com>

docs/docs/tasks/ner.md, after:

Named Entity Recognition
========================
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is the task of extracting named entities in a raw text. 
Common entity types are locations, organizations and persons. Currently a few
tools are available for NER in Danish. Popular models for NER
([BERT](https://huggingface.co/transformers/index.html),
[Flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair) and [spaCy](https://spacy.io/))
are continuously trained on the newest available named entity datasets such as DaNE
and made available through the DaNLP library.

| Model                                                                             | Train Data                                                            | Maintainer                     | Tags          | DaNLP |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|---------------|-------|
| [BERT](#bert)                                                                     | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [Flair](#flair)                                                                   | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [spaCy](#spacy)                                                                   | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Alexandra Institute            | PER, ORG, LOC | ✔     |
| [Polyglot](https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/NamedEntityRecognition.html) | Wikipedia                                                             | Polyglot                       | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |
| [daner](https://github.com/ITUnlp/daner)                                          | [Derczynski et al. (2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) | [ITU NLP](https://nlp.itu.dk/) | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |
| [NERDA](https://github.com/ebanalyse/NERDA/)                                      | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | Ekstra Bladet                  | PER, ORG, LOC | ❌     |
| [DaCy](#dacy)                                      | [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)                                           | [Center for Humanities Computing Aarhus](http://chcaa.io/#/), [K. Enevoldsen ](http://kennethenevoldsen.com)                 | PER, ORG, LOC | (✔)    |



#### 🔧 BERT {#bert}
The BERT [(Devlin et al. 2019)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/) NER model is based on the pre-trained [Danish BERT](https://github.com/botxo/nordic_bert) representations by BotXO which 
has been finetuned on the [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) 
dataset [(Hvingelby et al. 2020)](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2020/pdf/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf). The finetuning has been done using the [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) library from HuggingFace.

The BERT NER model can be loaded with the `load_bert_ner_model()` method. Please notice that it can maximum take 512 tokens as input at a time. For longer text sequences split before hand, for example using sentence boundary detection (e.g. by using the [spacy model](../frameworks/spacy.md ).) 

```python
from danlp.models import load_bert_ner_model
bert = load_bert_ner_model()
# Get lists of tokens and labels in BIO format
tokens, labels = bert.predict("Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark")
print(" ".join(["{}/{}".format(tok,lbl) for tok,lbl in zip(tokens,labels)]))

# To get a correct tokenization, you have to provide it yourself to BERT  by providing a list of tokens
# (for example SpaCy can be used for tokenization)
# With this option, output can also be choosen to be a dict with tags and position instead of BIO format
tekst_tokenized = ['Han', 'hedder', 'Anders', 'And', 'Andersen', 'og', 'bor', 'i', 'Århus', 'C']
bert.predict(tekst_tokenized, IOBformat=False)
"""
{'text': 'Han hedder Anders And Andersen og bor i Århus C',
 'entities': [{'type': 'PER','text':'Anders And Andersen','start_pos': 11,'end_pos': 30},
  {'type': 'LOC', 'text': 'Århus C', 'start_pos': 40, 'end_pos': 47}]}
"""
```


#### 🔧 Flair {#flair}
The Flair [(Akbik et al. 2018)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1139/) NER model
uses pretrained [Flair embeddings](embeddings.md#flair-embeddings)
in combination with fastText word embeddings. The model is trained using the [Flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair)
 library on the the [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) dataset.

The Flair NER model can be used with DaNLP using the `load_flair_ner_model()` method.
```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_ner_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the NER tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
flair_model = load_flair_ner_model()

# Using the flair NER tagger
sentence = Sentence('Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark') 
flair_model.predict(sentence) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())
```

#### 🔧 spaCy {#spacy}
The [spaCy](https://spacy.io/) model is trained for several NLP tasks [(read more here)](../frameworks/spacy.md) using the [DDT and DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) annotations.
The spaCy model can be loaded with DaNLP to do NER predictions in the following way.
```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

nlp = load_spacy_model()

doc = nlp('Jens Peter Hansen kommer fra Danmark') 
for tok in doc:
    print("{} {}".format(tok,tok.ent_type_))
```

#### Polyglot
The Polyglot [(Al-Rfou et al. 2015)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3791) NER model
is  trained without any human annotation or language-specific knowledge but 
by automatic generating a dataset using the link structure from Wikipedia.
This model is not available through DaNLP but it can be used from the 
[Polyglot](https://github.com/aboSamoor/polyglot) library.


### NERDA

[NERDA](https://github.com/ebanalyse/NERDA/) is a python package 
that provides an interface for fine-tuning pretrained transformers for NER. 
It also includes some ready-to-use fine-tuned (on [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)) NER models based on a 
[multilingual BERT](https://github.com/google-research/bert/blob/master/multilingual.md) 
and a [Danish Electra](https://github.com/MalteHB/-l-ctra). 


### DaCy {#dacy}

[DaCy](https://github.com/KennethEnevoldsen/DaCy) is a multi-task transformer trained using SpaCy v. 3.
its models is fine-tuned (on [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)) and based upon the Danish BERT (v2) by [botXO](https://github.com/botxo/nordic_bert) and the [XLM Roberta large](https://huggingface.co/xlm-roberta-large). For more on DaCy see the github [repository](https://github.com/KennethEnevoldsen/DaCy) or the [blog post](https://www.kennethenevoldsen.com/post/new-fast-and-efficient-state-of-the-art-in-danish-nlp/) describing the training procedure. 

#### Daner
The daner [(Derczynski et al. 2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) NER tool
is a wrapper around the [Stanford CoreNLP](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/) 
using data from [(Derczynski et al. 2014)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016) (not released).
The tool is not available through DaNLP but it can be used from the [daner repository](https://github.com/ITUnlp/daner).


## 📈 Benchmarks
The benchmarks has been performed on the test part of the
[DaNE](../datasets.md#dane) dataset.
None of the models have been trained on this test part. We are only reporting the scores on the `LOC`, `ORG` and `PER` entities as the `MISC` category has limited practical use.
The table below has the achieved F1 score on the test set:

| Model           | LOC       | ORG       | PER       | AVG       |
|-----------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| BERT            | 83.90     | 72.98 | 92.82     | 84.04 |
| Flair           | 84.82 | 62.95     | 93.15 | 81.78     |
| spaCy           | 75.96     | 59.57     | 87.87     | 75.73     |
| Polyglot        | 64.95     | 39.3      | 78.74     | 64.18     |
| NERDA (mBERT)   | 80.75     | 65.73     | 92.66     | 80.66     |
| NERDA (electra) | 77.67     | 60.13     | 90.16     | 76.77     |
| DaCy (medium) v0.0.0 | 83.96     | 66.23     | 90.41     | 80.09     |
| DaCy (large) v0.0.0 | **85.29**     | **79.04**     |  **95.53**     | **86.64**     |

The evaluation script `ner_benchmarks.py` can be found [here](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/examples/benchmarks/ner_benchmarks.py).



## 🎓 References
- Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. [BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/). In **NAACL**.
- Rami Al-Rfou, Vivek Kulkarni, Bryan Perozzi and Steven Skiena. 2015. [POLYGLOT-NER: Massive Multilingual Named Entity Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.3791). In **SDM**.
- Leon Derczynski, Camilla V. Field and Kenneth S. Bøgh. 2014. [DKIE: Open Source Information Extraction for Danish](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/E14-2016). In **EACL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1139/). In **COLING**.
- Rasmus Hvingelby, Amalie B. Pauli, Maria Barrett, Christina Rosted, Lasse M. Lidegaard and Anders Søgaard. 2020. [DaNE: A Named Entity Resource for Danish](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2020/pdf/2020.lrec-1.565.pdf). In **LREC**.
- Kevin Clark, Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V. Le and Christopher D. Manning. [ELECTRA: Pre-training Text Encoders as Discriminators Rather Than Generators](https://nlp.stanford.edu/pubs/clark2020electra.pdf). In **ICLR**.
