docs/docs/tasks/pos.md, before:

Part of Speech Tagging
======================
This section is concerned with public available Part of Speech (POS) taggers in Danish.

Part-of-speech tagging is the task of classifying words into their part-of-speech, based on both their definition and context. Parts of speech are also known as word classes, which describe the role of the words in sentences relatively to their neighbors (such as verbs and nouns). 

| Model                 | Train Data                                                                | License       | Trained by          | Tags                         | DaNLP |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------------|------------------------------|-------|
| [Polyglot](#polyglot) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)] | GPLv3 license | Polyglot            | 17  Universal part of speech | ❌     |
| [Flair](#flair)       | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)                         | MIT           | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️    |
| [SpaCy](#spacy)       | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)                         | MIT           | Alexandra Instittut | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️    |

The Danish UD treebank  uses 17 [universal part of speech tags](<https://universaldependencies.org/u/pos/index.html>):

`ADJ`: Adjective, `ADP`: Adposition , `ADV`: Adverb, `AUX`: Auxiliary verb, `CCONJ`: Coordinating conjunction, `DET`: Determiner, `INTJ`: Interjection, `NOUN`: Noun, `NUM`: Numeral, `PART`: Particle `PRON`: Pronoun `PROPN`: Proper noun `PUNCT`: Punctuation `SCONJ`: Subordinating conjunction `SYM`: Symbol `VERB`: Verb `X`: Other

A medium blog using Part of Speech tagging on Danish, can be found  [here](<https://medium.com/danlp/i-klasse-med-kierkegaard-eller-historien-om-det-fede-ved-at-en-computer-kan-finde-ordklasser-189774695f3b>).

![](../imgs/postag_eksempel.gif)

##### 🔧 Flair {#flair}

This project provides a trained part of speech tagging model for Danish using the [Flair](<https://github.com/flairNLP/flair>) framework from Zalando, based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). The model is trained using the data [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)  and by using FastText word embeddings and Flair contextual word embeddings trained in this project on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus, see [here](embeddings.md).

The code for training can be found on Flairs GitHub, and the following parameters are set:
`learning_rate=1`, `mini_batch_size=32`, `max_epochs=150`, `hidden_size=256`.

The flair pos tagger can be used by loading  it with the  `load_flair_pos_model` method. Please note that the text should be tokenized before hand, this can for example be done using spaCy. 

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# Using the flair POS tagger
sentence = Sentence('Jeg hopper på en bil , som er rød sammen med Niels .') 
tagger.predict(sentence) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())

# Example
'''Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> , <PUNCT> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Niels <PROPN> . <PUNCT>
'''

```



##### 🔧 SpaCy {#spacy}

Read more about the spaCy model in the dedicated [spaCy docs](../frameworks/spacy.md) , it has also been trained using the [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) data. 

Below is a small getting started snippet for using the spaCy POS tagger:

```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

#Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
nlp = load_spacy_model()

# Using the spaCy POS tagger
doc = nlp('Jeg hopper på en bil, som er rød sammen med Niels.')
pred=''
for token in doc:
    pred += '{} <{}> '.format(token.text, token.pos_)
print(pred)

# Example
''' Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> , <PUNCT> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Niels <PROPN> . <PUNCT> 
 '''
```

##### Polyglot

Read more about the polyglot model [here](<https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/POS.html>), and in the original paper [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). 

## 📈 Benchmarks

Accuracy scores is reported below and can be reproduced using `pos_benchmarks.py` in the [example](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples>) folder, where the details score from each class is calculated.

#### DaNLP

| Model                       | Accuracy   |
|-----------------------------|------------|
| Flair                       | **97.97**  |
| SpaCy                       | 96.15      |

#### Polyglot model

The tags predicted with the polyglot model differ slightly from the universal PoS-tags. The model predicts :
* `CONJ` instead of `CCONJ`
* `VERB` instead of `AUX` for the auxiliary and modal verbs (i.e. `være`, `have`, `kunne`, `ville`, `skulle`, `måtte`, `burde`)

We calculated the scores for the original predictions and for the corrected version.

| Model                       | Accuracy   |
| --------                    | ---------- |
| Polyglot                    | 76.76      |
| Polyglot (corrected output) | 83.4       |




## 🎓 References 
- Rami Al-Rfou, Bryan Perozzi, and Steven Skiena. 2013. [Polyglot: Distributed Word Representations for Multilingual NLP](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). In **CoNLL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe, and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf). In **COLING**.

Commit message:

adding dacy to danlp (#118)
* adding dacy to danlp

* rem test and fixed req

* updated ner

* updated pos

* added dep

* added dacy benchmark to main as a comment

* removed dacy small from NER

* added version to DaCy models

Co-authored-by: KennethEnevoldsen <kennethcenevolsen@gmail.com>

docs/docs/tasks/pos.md, after:

Part of Speech Tagging
======================
This section is concerned with public available Part of Speech (POS) taggers in Danish.

Part-of-speech tagging is the task of classifying words into their part-of-speech, based on both their definition and context. Parts of speech are also known as word classes, which describe the role of the words in sentences relatively to their neighbors (such as verbs and nouns). 

| Model                 | Train Data                                                                | License       | Trained by                                                                                                   | Tags                         | DaNLP |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | ----- |
| [Polyglot](#polyglot) | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)] | GPLv3 license | Polyglot                                                                                                     | 17  Universal part of speech | ❌     |
| [Flair](#flair)       | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)                         | MIT           | Alexandra Instittut                                                                                          | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️     |
| [SpaCy](#spacy)       | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)                         | MIT           | Alexandra Instittut                                                                                          | 17  Universal part of speech | ✔️     |
| [DaCy](#dacy)         | [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)                         | Apache 2      | [Center for Humanities Computing Aarhus](http://chcaa.io/#/), [K. Enevoldsen ](http://kennethenevoldsen.com) | 17  Universal part of speech | (✔️)   |

The Danish UD treebank  uses 17 [universal part of speech tags](<https://universaldependencies.org/u/pos/index.html>):

`ADJ`: Adjective, `ADP`: Adposition , `ADV`: Adverb, `AUX`: Auxiliary verb, `CCONJ`: Coordinating conjunction, `DET`: Determiner, `INTJ`: Interjection, `NOUN`: Noun, `NUM`: Numeral, `PART`: Particle `PRON`: Pronoun `PROPN`: Proper noun `PUNCT`: Punctuation `SCONJ`: Subordinating conjunction `SYM`: Symbol `VERB`: Verb `X`: Other

A medium blog using Part of Speech tagging on Danish, can be found  [here](<https://medium.com/danlp/i-klasse-med-kierkegaard-eller-historien-om-det-fede-ved-at-en-computer-kan-finde-ordklasser-189774695f3b>).

![](../imgs/postag_eksempel.gif)

##### 🔧 Flair {#flair}

This project provides a trained part of speech tagging model for Danish using the [Flair](<https://github.com/flairNLP/flair>) framework from Zalando, based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). The model is trained using the data [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane)  and by using FastText word embeddings and Flair contextual word embeddings trained in this project on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus, see [here](embeddings.md).

The code for training can be found on Flairs GitHub, and the following parameters are set:
`learning_rate=1`, `mini_batch_size=32`, `max_epochs=150`, `hidden_size=256`.

The flair pos tagger can be used by loading  it with the  `load_flair_pos_model` method. Please note that the text should be tokenized before hand, this can for example be done using spaCy. 

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

# Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# Using the flair POS tagger
sentence = Sentence('Jeg hopper på en bil , som er rød sammen med Niels .') 
tagger.predict(sentence) 
print(sentence.to_tagged_string())

# Example
'''Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> , <PUNCT> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Niels <PROPN> . <PUNCT>
'''

```



##### 🔧 SpaCy {#spacy}

Read more about the spaCy model in the dedicated [spaCy docs](../frameworks/spacy.md) , it has also been trained using the [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) data. 

Below is a small getting started snippet for using the spaCy POS tagger:

```python
from danlp.models import load_spacy_model

#Load the POS tagger using the DaNLP wrapper
nlp = load_spacy_model()

# Using the spaCy POS tagger
doc = nlp('Jeg hopper på en bil, som er rød sammen med Niels.')
pred=''
for token in doc:
    pred += '{} <{}> '.format(token.text, token.pos_)
print(pred)

# Example
''' Jeg <PRON> hopper <VERB> på <ADP> en <DET> bil <NOUN> , <PUNCT> som <ADP> er <AUX> rød <ADJ> sammen <ADV> med <ADP> Niels <PROPN> . <PUNCT> 
 '''
```

##### DaCy {#dacy}

[DaCy](https://github.com/KennethEnevoldsen/DaCy) is a multi-task transformer trained using SpaCy v. 3.
its models is fine-tuned (on [DaNE](../datasets.md#dane)) and based upon the Danish BERT (v2) by [botXO](https://github.com/botxo/nordic_bert) and the [XLM Roberta large](https://huggingface.co/xlm-roberta-large). For more on DaCy see the github [repository](https://github.com/KennethEnevoldsen/DaCy) or the [blog post](https://www.kennethenevoldsen.com/post/new-fast-and-efficient-state-of-the-art-in-danish-nlp/) describing the training procedure. 

##### Polyglot

Read more about the polyglot model [here](<https://polyglot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/POS.html>), and in the original paper [Al-Rfou et al. (2013)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). 

## 📈 Benchmarks

Accuracy scores are reported below and can be reproduced using `pos_benchmarks.py` in the [example](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/tree/master/examples>) folder, where the details score from each class is calculated.

#### DaNLP

| Model         | Accuracy  |
| ------------- | --------- |
| Flair         | 97.97     |
| SpaCy         | 96.15     |
| DaCy (medium) v0.0.0 | 98.27     |
| DaCy (large) v0.0.0 | **98.65** |

#### Polyglot model

The tags predicted with the polyglot model differ slightly from the universal PoS-tags. The model predicts :
* `CONJ` instead of `CCONJ`
* `VERB` instead of `AUX` for the auxiliary and modal verbs (i.e. `være`, `have`, `kunne`, `ville`, `skulle`, `måtte`, `burde`)

We calculated the scores for the original predictions and for the corrected version.

| Model                       | Accuracy |
| --------------------------- | -------- |
| Polyglot                    | 76.76    |
| Polyglot (corrected output) | 83.4     |




## 🎓 References 
- Rami Al-Rfou, Bryan Perozzi, and Steven Skiena. 2013. [Polyglot: Distributed Word Representations for Multilingual NLP](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W13-3520). In **CoNLL**.
- Alan Akbik, Duncan Blythe, and Roland Vollgraf. 2018. [Contextual String Embeddings for Sequence Labeling](https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf). In **COLING**.
