docs/docs/frameworks/flair.md, before:

Flair
=====

The [flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair) framework from Zalando is based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). 


Through the DaNLP package, we provide a pre-trained Part-of-Speech tagger, Named Entity recognizer and contextual embeddings using the flair framework. 
The NER and POS models have been trained on the [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) and using fastText word embeddings and [flair contextual word embeddings](../tasks/embeddings.md#flair-embeddings), which are trained on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus.



## One sentence at a time

For Part-of-Speech tagging and Named Entity Recognition, it is possible to analyse one sentence at a time using the `Sentence` class of the flair framework. 

Please note that the text should be tokenized before hand. 

Here is a snippet for using the part-of-speech tagger which can be loaded using the DaNLP `load_flair_pos_model` function.  

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

text = "Morten bor i København tæt på Kongens Nytorv"
sentence = Sentence(text)

tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

tagger.predict(sentence)

for tok in sentence.tokens:
    print(tok.text, tok.get_tag('upos').value)

```

In a similar way, you can load and use the DaNLP Named Entity Recognition model using the `load_flair_ner_model` function.

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_ner_model
from flair.data import Sentence

text = "Morten bor i København tæt på Kongens Nytorv"
sentence = Sentence(text)

tagger = load_flair_ner_model()

tagger.predict(sentence)

for tok in sentence.tokens:
    print(tok.text, tok.get_tag('ner').value)

```


## Dataset analysis


If you want to analyze an entire dataset you can either use one of the DaNLP functions to load the DDT or the WikiAnn, or create a list of flair `Sentence`. 

### DaNLP datasets

You can load the DDT as follow:

```python
from danlp.datasets import DDT
ddt = DDT()
# load the DDT
flair_corpus = ddt.load_with_flair()

# you can access the train, test or dev part of the dataset
flair_train = flair_corpus.train
flair_test = flair_corpus.test
flair_dev = flair_corpus.dev

# to get the list of UPOS tags for each sentence
pos_tags = [[tok.tags['upos'].value for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]
# to get the list of NER tags for each sentence (BIO format)
ner_tags = [[tok.tags['ner'].value for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]
# to get the list of tokens for each sentence
tokens = [[tok.text for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]

# you can use the loaded datasets 
# to parse with the danlp POS or NER models
tagger.predict(flair_test)

```

Or the WikiAnn: 

```python
from danlp.datasets import WikiAnn
wikiann = WikiAnn()
# load the WikiAnn dataset
flair_corpus = wikiann.load_with_flair()
```

### Your dataset

From your own list of sentences (pre-tokenized) you can build a list of flair `Sentence` -- to use as previously described with the DaNLP datasets. 

Here is an example with the POS model:

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence, Token

# loading the POS flair model
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# your sentences (list of lists of tokens)
my_sentences = [[...], [...], ...]

flair_sentences = []
for sent in my_sentences:
    flair_sent = Sentence()
    for tok in sent:
        flair_sent.add_token(Token(tok))
    flair_sentences.append(flair_sent)

tagger.predict(flair_sentences)

for sentence in flair_sentences: 
    print(" ".join(["{}/{}".format(t.text, t.get_tag('upos').value) for t in sentence.tokens]))
```

Commit message:

Fixing errors for the documentation page (Tasks, Datasets, Frameworks) (#139)
* Fix Windows compatibility error

* Fix Windows compatibility error 2

* added test script to gitignore

* Accidentally pushed local test artifacts.

* Fix Windows compatibility error 3

* Removed a parentheses

* Fix windows Compatibility error 4

* Updated comments and changed input string

* Updated another comment

* Removed unexpected key word arguments

* example sentences for Frameworks flair 'Your dataset'

* Fixed typo and updated documentation to fit with flair 0.8

* Now includes line to download the required stanza model

* Avoiding division by zero

* added comment that describes how to run the dacy benchmark functions

* removed relative import, which doesn't work for Windows and Mac

* Updated version of pyicu

* Updated print on how to download and where to place model

* added line that downloads needed resources

* compatibility with flair 0.8

* Windows compatibility

* reverting gitignore

* fix pycache ignore

* compatibility with flair 0.8

* coherence between model_path and output

* coherence between model_path and output

* removed relative import

* Revert changed version of PyICU

* Fixed comments

Co-authored-by: Oliver Kinch <oliver@alex5925.local>

docs/docs/frameworks/flair.md, after:

Flair
=====

The [flair](https://github.com/flairNLP/flair) framework from Zalando is based on the paper [Akbik et. al (2018)](<https://alanakbik.github.io/papers/coling2018.pdf>). 


Through the DaNLP package, we provide a pre-trained Part-of-Speech tagger, Named Entity recognizer and contextual embeddings using the flair framework. 
The NER and POS models have been trained on the [Danish Dependency Treebank](../datasets.md#dane) and using fastText word embeddings and [flair contextual word embeddings](../tasks/embeddings.md#flair-embeddings), which are trained on data from Wikipedia and EuroParl corpus.



## One sentence at a time

For Part-of-Speech tagging and Named Entity Recognition, it is possible to analyse one sentence at a time using the `Sentence` class of the flair framework. 

Please note that the text should be tokenized before hand. 

Here is a snippet for using the part-of-speech tagger which can be loaded using the DaNLP `load_flair_pos_model` function.  

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence

text = "Morten bor i København tæt på Kongens Nytorv"
sentence = Sentence(text)

tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

tagger.predict(sentence)

for tok in sentence.tokens:
    print(tok.text, tok.get_tag('upos').value)

```

In a similar way, you can load and use the DaNLP Named Entity Recognition model using the `load_flair_ner_model` function.

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_ner_model
from flair.data import Sentence

text = "Morten bor i København tæt på Kongens Nytorv"
sentence = Sentence(text)

tagger = load_flair_ner_model()

tagger.predict(sentence)

for tok in sentence.tokens:
    print(tok.text, tok.get_tag('ner').value)

```


## Dataset analysis


If you want to analyze an entire dataset you can either use one of the DaNLP functions to load the DDT or the WikiAnn, or create a list of flair `Sentence`. 

### DaNLP datasets

You can load the DDT as follow:

```python
from danlp.datasets import DDT
ddt = DDT()
# load the DDT
flair_corpus = ddt.load_with_flair()

# you can access the train, test or dev part of the dataset
flair_train = flair_corpus.train
flair_test = flair_corpus.test
flair_dev = flair_corpus.dev

# to get the list of UPOS tags for each sentence
pos_tags = [[tok.get_tag('upos').value for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]
# to get the list of NER tags for each sentence (BIO format)
ner_tags = [[tok.get_tag('ner').value for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]
# to get the list of tokens for each sentence
tokens = [[tok.text for tok in fs] for fs in flair_test]

# you can use the loaded datasets 
# to parse with the danlp POS or NER models
tagger.predict(flair_test)

```

Or the WikiAnn: 

```python
from danlp.datasets import WikiAnn
wikiann = WikiAnn()
# load the WikiAnn dataset
flair_corpus = wikiann.load_with_flair()
```

### Your dataset

From your own list of sentences (pre-tokenized) you can build a list of flair `Sentence` -- to use as previously described with the DaNLP datasets. 

Here is an example with the POS model:

```python
from danlp.models import load_flair_pos_model
from flair.data import Sentence, Token

# loading the POS flair model
tagger = load_flair_pos_model()

# add your own sentences as seen with two examples.
my_sentences = [['Den', 'danske', 'kolonihavebevægelse', 'er', 'skyld', 'i', ',', 'at', 'vi', 'har', 'fri', 'om', 'lørdagen'], 
                ['Møllehøj', 'er', 'det', 'højeste', 'punkt', 'i', 'Danmark']]

flair_sentences = []
for sent in my_sentences:
    flair_sent = Sentence()
    for tok in sent:
        flair_sent.add_token(Token(tok))
    flair_sentences.append(flair_sent)

tagger.predict(flair_sentences)

for sentence in flair_sentences: 
    print(" ".join(["{}/{}".format(t.text, t.get_tag('upos').value) for t in sentence.tokens]))
```
