examples/README.md, before:

Examples
========

Here you will find examples and tutorials on how to use NLP in Danish.

Some of the examples make use of the DaNLP pip package and show how to use the 
package. Other examples focus on different use case e.g. applying cross-transfer 
learning on Danish. 

The Jupyter notebooks will start with a description of how to setup the 
installation and run it.      


## List of currently available stuff

-  Tutorial of applying zero shot transfer learning to train a sentiment 
   classifier that can be applied on Danish text in a Jupyter notebook:
   `example_zero_shot_sentiment.ipynb`
-  Benchmark scripts for word embeddings in `wordembeddings_benchmarks.py`
-  Benchmark scripts on the
   [DaNE](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank) 
   NER dataset in `ner_benchmarks.py`

- Benchmark script for sentiment classification on [LCC Sentiment](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#lcc-sentiment)  and [Europarl Sentiment](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#europarl-sentiment) using the tools [AFINN](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md#afinn) and [Sentida](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md#sentida) where the scores are converted to three class problem in `sentiment_benchmarks.py`

- Benchmark script of [Part of Speech tagging](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md>) on [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>). A spcay, flair and polyglot model is benchmarked `pos_benchmarks.py`

Commit message:

Evaluation of BERT TONE
 Add europarl sentiment dataset, updated BERT Tone predict, Add evalustion script for twitter dataset, updated sentiment evaluation script with BERT tone model, updated docs

examples/README.md, after:

Examples
========

Here you will find examples and tutorials on how to use NLP in Danish.

Some of the examples make use of the DaNLP pip package and show how to use the 
package. Other examples focus on different use case e.g. applying cross-transfer 
learning on Danish. 

The Jupyter notebooks will start with a description of how to setup the 
installation and run it.      


## List of currently available stuff

-  Tutorial of applying zero shot transfer learning to train a sentiment 
   classifier that can be applied on Danish text in a Jupyter notebook:
   `example_zero_shot_sentiment.ipynb`
   
- Benchmark scripts for word embeddings in `wordembeddings_benchmarks.py`

-  Benchmark scripts on the
   [DaNE](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank) 
   NER dataset in `ner_benchmarks.py`

- Benchmark script for sentiment classification on [LCC Sentiment](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#lcc-sentiment)  and [Europarl Sentiment](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#europarl-sentiment) using the tools [AFINN](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md#afinn) and [Sentida](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md#sentida) where the scores are converted to three class problem. It also includes benchmark of [BERT Tone (polarity)](https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/sentiment_analysis.md#wrenchbert-tone)  `sentiment_benchmarks.py`

- `sentiment_benchmarks_twitter.py` show evaluation on a small twitter dataset for both polarity and subjective/objective classification

- Benchmark script of [Part of Speech tagging](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/models/pos.md>) on [Danish Dependency Treebank](<https://github.com/alexandrainst/danlp/blob/master/docs/datasets.md#danish-dependency-treebank-dane>). A spcay, flair and polyglot model is benchmarked `pos_benchmarks.py`
